docs(deepagents): fix default middleware ordering in customization (#3729)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/deepagents/customization.mdx

### Default stack (main agent)

From first to last:

1. @[`TodoListMiddleware`]: Tracks and manages todo lists for organizing agent tasks and work.
2. @[`SkillsMiddleware`]: Only when you pass `skills` / `Skills`. Injected **immediately after** the todo middleware and **before** filesystem middleware so skill metadata is available before file tools run.
3. @[`FilesystemMiddleware`]: Handles file system operations such as reading, writing, and navigating directories.
4. @[`SubAgentMiddleware`]: Spawns and coordinates subagents for delegating tasks to specialized agents.
5. @[`SummarizationMiddleware`]: Condenses message history to stay within context limits when conversations grow long (via @[create_summarization_middleware] / @[createSummarizationMiddleware]).
6. @[`PatchToolCallsMiddleware`]: Automatic message history fixes when tool calls are interrupted or cancelled before receiving results. Runs **before** Anthropic prompt caching and the tail stack below.

> 7. @[`AsyncSubAgentMiddleware`]: Only when you configure async subagents (`graph_id` specs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. @[`AsyncSubAgentMiddleware`]: Only when you configure async subagents.
```

8. **Your middleware argument**: Optional middleware you pass as the `middleware` argument is appended here (after Patch, before the tail stack).
9. **Harness profile extras**: Provider-specific middleware from the resolved model profile, if any.
10. **Excluded-tool filtering**: When the harness profile lists excluded tools, middleware removes those tools from the agent.
11. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Always registered; it no-ops on non-Anthropic models (`unsupported_model_behavior="ignore"`). Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.
12. @[`MemoryMiddleware`]: Only when you pass `memory` / `Memory`.

<Note>
`MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `create_deep_agent` implementation comments.
</Note>

13. `HumanInTheLoopMiddleware`: Only when you pass `interrupt_on` / `interruptOn`. Pauses for human approval or input at configured tool calls.

> 14. **Filesystem permissions enforcement**: Only when you pass `permissions` / `permissions`. Always **last** on the stack so it can evaluate every tool the agent might call.

Reviewer: This should probably be combined with item 3. It's not separate

### Default stack (synchronous subagents)

The built-in **general-purpose** subagent and each declarative synchronous `SubAgent` graph use a stack that `create_deep_agent` / `createDeepAgent` builds in code. It matches the main agent in broad shape (todo list, filesystem, summarization, Patch, profile extras, Anthropic caching, optional permissions) but differs in two ways readers should remember:

- **Skills run after** @[`PatchToolCallsMiddleware`] on these inner agents (on the main agent, skills run **before** filesystem middleware when `skills` / `Skills` is set).
- There is **no** @[`SubAgentMiddleware`] inside a subagent graph (only the parent agent exposes the `task` tool).

> When a declarative subagent sets `interrupt_on` / `interruptOn`, `HumanInTheLoopMiddleware` is appended for that subagent. See [Human-in-the-loop](/oss/deepagents/human-in-the-loop) for configuration. `CompiledSubAgent` runnables use whatever middleware you defined on the compiled graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a declarative subagent sets `interrupt_on` / `interruptOn`, that value is forwarded to `create_agent` / `createAgent` for the subagent, which wires up human-in-the-loop handling for the configured tool calls.
```

7. @[`AsyncSubAgentMiddleware`]: Only when you configure async subagents.
8. **Your middleware argument**: Optional middleware you pass as the `middleware` argument is appended here (after Patch, before the tail stack).
9. **Harness profile extras**: Provider-specific middleware from the resolved model profile, if any.
10. **Excluded-tool filtering**: When the harness profile lists excluded tools, middleware removes those tools from the agent.
11. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Always registered; it no-ops on non-Anthropic models (`unsupported_model_behavior="ignore"`). Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.
12. @[`MemoryMiddleware`]: Only when you pass `memory`.

<Note>
`MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `create_deep_agent` implementation comments.

> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <Note>
    `MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `create_deep_agent` implementation comments.
    </Note>
```

7. @[`AsyncSubAgentMiddleware`]: Only when you configure async subagents.
8. **Your middleware argument**: Optional middleware you pass as the `middleware` argument is appended here (after Patch, before the tail stack).
9. **Harness profile extras**: Provider-specific middleware from the resolved model profile, if any.
10. **Excluded-tool filtering**: When the harness profile lists excluded tools, middleware removes those tools from the agent.
11. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Always registered; it no-ops on non-Anthropic models (`unsupported_model_behavior="ignore"`). Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.
12. @[`MemoryMiddleware`]: Only when you pass `memory`.

<Note>
`MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `createDeepAgent` implementation comments.

> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <Note>
    `MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `createDeepAgent` implementation comments.
    </Note>
```

> 11. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Always registered; it no-ops on non-Anthropic models (`unsupported_model_behavior="ignore"`). Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Automatically added when you are using an Anthropic mode. Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.
```

> 13. `HumanInTheLoopMiddleware`: Only when you pass `interruptOn`. Pauses for human approval or input at configured tool calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tools from the agent.
10. @[`AnthropicPromptCachingMiddleware`]: Automatically added when you are using an Anthropic mode. Runs **after** Patch and after your middleware so the cached prefix matches what is actually sent to the model.
11. @[`MemoryMiddleware`]: Only when you pass `memory`.

    <Note>
    `MemoryMiddleware` is placed **after** profile extras and Anthropic prompt caching so updates to injected memory are less likely to invalidate the Anthropic cache prefix. The same ordering concern is called out in the `createDeepAgent` implementation comments.
    </Note>

12. `HumanInTheLoopMiddleware`: Only when you pass `interruptOn`. Pauses for human approval or input at configured tool calls.
13. **Excluded-tool filtering**: When the harness profile lists excluded tools, middleware removes those ```
